# 0. Start Up

1. Mac 上使用 VS Code
	The [VS Code instructions for Mac](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac) detail how to install and setup VS Code for macOS. Once VS Code is installed, follow the [instructions on how to configure C++ for Mac](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-clang-mac).

2. 创建解决方案
	When you create a new project for your program, many IDEs will automatically add your project to a **“workspace”** or a **“solution”** (the term varies by IDE). A workspace or solution is a container that can hold **one or more related projects.** For example, if you were writing a game and wanted to have a separate executable for single player and multiplayer, you’d need to create two projects. It wouldn’t make sense for both of these projects to be completely independent -- after all, they are part of the same game. Most likely, each would be configured as a separate project within a single workspace/solution.

3. 酌情选择是否添加预编译头
	[[预编译头 Precompiled Headers]]

4. 编译器选择
	 [[编译器 Compiler]]  / [[工具链 Toolchain]]
	 - In VS Code, choose the _g++ build and debug active file_ option (macOS users should choose _clang++_ instead of _g++_).

5. 构建配置
	- 构建类型：When you create a new project in your IDE, most IDEs will set up two different build configurations for you: a **release configuration**, and a **debug configuration**. [[构建配置项 Build Configurations#构建类型]]
	- 语言版本选择：[[构建配置项 Build Configurations#语言版本选择]]


# 1. Basic

Q：不同形式的变量初始化？

```C++
int a;         // default-initialization (no initializer)

// Traditional initialization forms:
int b = 5;     // copy-initialization (initial value after equals sign)
int c ( 6 );   // direct-initialization (initial value in parenthesis)

// Modern initialization forms (preferred):
int d { 7 };   // direct-list-initialization (initial value in braces)
int w1 { 4.5 }; // compile error! list-init does not allow narrowing conversion

int e {};      // value-initialization / zero-initialization to value 0
```

Tips：
- Copy-initialization is also used whenever values are implicitly copied, such as when passing arguments to a function by value, returning from a function by value, or catching exceptions by value.
- Direct-initialization is also used when values are explicitly cast to another type (e.g. via `static_cast`).
- list-init does not allow narrowing conversion. e.g. 4.5 -> 4.
- For class types, value-initialization (and default-initialization) may instead initialize the object to predefined default values, which may be non-zero.

---

Q：`std::endl` vs `\n`？

当调用 `std::cout`，我们程序中的语句请求将输出发送到控制台。但是，该输出通常不会立即发送到控制台。相反，请求的输出会“排成一行”，并存储在专门用于收集此类请求的内存区域（called a **buffer**）中。Periodically, the buffer is **flushed**, meaning all of the data collected in the buffer is transferred to its destination (in this case, the console).

综上所述，outputting data is actually a two stage process:
- The data from each output request is added (to the end) of an output buffer.
- Later, data from (the front of) the output buffer is flushed to the output device (the console).

Writing data to a buffer is typically **fast**, whereas transferring a batch of data to an output device is comparatively **slow**.

Using `std::endl` is often inefficient, as it actually does two jobs: it moving the cursor to the next line of the console, and it flushes the buffer (which is slow).  `\n` won't.

Prefer `\n` over `std::endl` when outputting text to the console.

---

Q：表达式 `x = 5` 是返回什么？

Both `operator=` and `operator<<` (when used to output values to the console) return **their left operand**. Thus, `x = 5` returns `x`, and `std::cout << 5` returns `std::cout`. This is done so that these operators can be chained.

For example, `x = y = 5` evaluates as `x = (y = 5)`. First `y = 5` assigns `5` to `y`. This operation then returns `y`, which can then be assigned to `x`.

`std::cout << "Hello " << "world!"` evaluates as `(std::cout << "Hello ") << "world!"`. This first prints `"Hello "` to the console. This operation returns `std::cout`, which can then be used to print `"world!"` to the console as well.

```C++
int x { 2 };
std::cout << (x = 5) << '\n'; // output 5
```