
1. Mac 上使用 VS Code
	The [VS Code instructions for Mac](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac) detail how to install and setup VS Code for macOS. Once VS Code is installed, follow the [instructions on how to configure C++ for Mac](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-clang-mac).

2. 创建解决方案
	When you create a new project for your program, many IDEs will automatically add your project to a **“workspace”** or a **“solution”** (the term varies by IDE). A workspace or solution is a container that can hold **one or more related projects.** For example, if you were writing a game and wanted to have a separate executable for single player and multiplayer, you’d need to create two projects. It wouldn’t make sense for both of these projects to be completely independent -- after all, they are part of the same game. Most likely, each would be configured as a separate project within a single workspace/solution.

3. 酌情选择是否添加预编译头
	[[预编译头 Precompiled Headers]]

4. 编译器选择
	 [[编译器 Compiler]]  / [[工具链 Toolchain]]
	 - In VS Code, choose the _g++ build and debug active file_ option (macOS users should choose _clang++_ instead of _g++_).

5. 构建配置
	- 构建类型：When you create a new project in your IDE, most IDEs will set up two different build configurations for you: a **release configuration**, and a **debug configuration**. [[1.9 构建配置项 Build Configurations#构建类型]]
	- 语言版本选择：[[1.9 构建配置项 Build Configurations#语言版本选择]]

6. 编译过程
	- The entire process of preprocessing, compiling, and linking is called **translation**.
	- 预处理：[[2.10 预处理器 Preprocessor]]
	- 编译：
	- 链接：

---

Q：不同形式的变量初始化？

```C++
int a;         // default-initialization (no initializer)

// Traditional initialization forms:
int b = 5;     // copy-initialization (initial value after equals sign)
int c ( 6 );   // direct-initialization (initial value in parenthesis)

// Modern initialization forms (preferred):
int d { 7 };   // direct-list-initialization (initial value in braces)
int w1 { 4.5 }; // compile error! list-init does not allow narrowing conversion

int e {};      // value-initialization / zero-initialization to value 0
```

Tips：
- Copy-initialization is also used whenever values are implicitly copied, such as when passing arguments to a function by value, returning from a function by value, or catching exceptions by value.
- Direct-initialization is also used when values are explicitly cast to another type (e.g. via `static_cast`).
- list-init does not allow narrowing conversion. e.g. 4.5 -> 4.
- For class types, value-initialization (and default-initialization) may instead initialize the object to predefined default values, which may be non-zero.

---

Q：`std::endl` vs `\n`？

当调用 `std::cout`，我们程序中的语句请求将输出发送到控制台。但是，该输出通常不会立即发送到控制台。相反，请求的输出会“排成一行”，并存储在专门用于收集此类请求的内存区域（called a **buffer**）中。Periodically, the buffer is **flushed**, meaning all of the data collected in the buffer is transferred to its destination (in this case, the console).

综上所述，outputting data is actually a two stage process:
- The data from each output request is added (to the end) of an output buffer.
- Later, data from (the front of) the output buffer is flushed to the output device (the console).

Writing data to a buffer is typically **fast**, whereas transferring a batch of data to an output device is comparatively **slow**.

Using `std::endl` is often inefficient, as it actually does two jobs: it moving the cursor to the next line of the console, and it flushes the buffer (which is slow).  `\n` won't.

Prefer `\n` over `std::endl` when outputting text to the console.

---

Q：表达式 `x = 5` 是返回什么？

Both `operator=` and `operator<<` (when used to output values to the console) return **their left operand**. Thus, `x = 5` returns `x`, and `std::cout << 5` returns `std::cout`. This is done so that these operators can be chained.

For example, `x = y = 5` evaluates as `x = (y = 5)`. First `y = 5` assigns `5` to `y`. This operation then returns `y`, which can then be assigned to `x`.

`std::cout << "Hello " << "world!"` evaluates as `(std::cout << "Hello ") << "world!"`. This first prints `"Hello "` to the console. This operation returns `std::cout`, which can then be used to print `"world!"` to the console as well.

```C++
int x { 2 };
std::cout << (x = 5) << '\n'; // output 5
```

---

Q：**Unreferenced parameters** and **unnamed parameters**？

In certain cases, you will encounter functions that have parameters that are not used in the body of the function. These are called **unreferenced parameters**.

As a trivial example:

```cpp
void doSomething(int count) // warning: unreferenced parameter count
{
    // This function used to do something with count but it is not used any longer
}
```

Just like with unused local variables, your compiler will probably warn that variable `count` has been defined but not used.

the names in a declaration are optional (and if provided, ignored by the compiler). 在函数声明中，变量是否有名字是可选的，有也会被编译器忽略。

In a function **definition** the name of a function parameter is also optional. Therefore, in cases where a function parameter needs to exist but is not used in the body of the function, you can simply omit the name. A parameter without a name is called an **unnamed parameter**: 在函数定义中, 变量是否有名字也是可选的，如果函数内用不到的话最好写成没名字的，就不会触发警告或错误（为什么用不到还要保留下面Question模块解释了）。

```cpp
void doSomething(int) // ok: unnamed parameter will not generate warning
{
}
```

The Google C++ style guide recommends using a comment to document what the unnamed parameter was:

```cpp
void doSomething(int /*count*/)
{
}
```

> [!Question]
> You’re probably wondering why we’d write a function that has a parameter whose value isn’t used. This happens most often in cases similar to the following:
> 1. Let’s say we have a function with a single parameter. Later, the function is updated in some way, and the value of the parameter is no longer needed. If the now-unused function parameter were simply removed, then every existing call to the function would break (because the function call would be supplying more arguments than the function could accept). This would require us to find every call to the function and remove the unneeded argument. This might be a lot of work (and require a lot of retesting). It also might not even be possible (in cases where we did not control all of the code calling the function). So instead, we might leave the parameter as it is, and just have it do nothing.
> 2. Operators `++` and `--` have prefix and postfix variants (e.g. `++foo` vs `foo++`). An unreferenced function parameter is used to differentiate whether an overload of such an operator is for the prefix or postfix case. 
>    `Digit& operator++(); // prefix has no parameter` 
>    `Digit operator++(int); // postfix has an int parameter`
>    We cover this in lesson [21.8 -- Overloading the increment and decrement operators](https://www.learncpp.com/cpp-tutorial/overloading-the-increment-and-decrement-operators/). 
> 3. When we need to determine something from the type (rather than the value) of a type template parameter.

> [!Tip] Best practice
> When a function parameter exists but is not used in the body of the function, do not give it a name. You can optionally put a name inside a comment.

---

Q：**The one definition rule (ODR)？**

The **one definition rule** (or ODR for short) is a well-known rule in C++. The ODR has three parts:

1. Within a _file_, each function, variable, type, or template in a given scope can only have one definition. Definitions occurring in different scopes (e.g. local variables defined inside different functions, or functions defined inside different namespaces) do not violate this rule.
2. Within a _program_, each function or variable in a given scope can only have one definition. This rule exists because programs can have more than one file. Functions and variables not visible to the linker are excluded from this rule.
3. Types, templates, inline functions, and inline variables are allowed to have duplicate definitions in different files, so long as each definition is identical.

Functions that share an identifier but have different sets of parameters are also considered to be distinct functions (函数重载), so such definitions do not violate the ODR.

---
